Introductory Applications
=========================

Quantum Cryptography
--------------------

The use of quantum mechanics for the purposes of cryptography will now be discussed.  We will introduce a simple approach here, which is described more fully in [Bennett1984]_.  Consider first the use of a *one time pad*, which assures perfect secrecy.  For example, to encrypt a bit string, 01101110, we can use a secret key of the same length (our "one-time pad"), say 11101010, and perform an exclusive-OR operation yielding:  10000100.  This result can then be transmitted over an unsecured channel and decoded by someone who has the one-time pad by applying the exclusive-OR a second time, yielding:  01101110, the original message.

This system relies on two basic requirements such as to remain secret.  Firstly, the one-time pads are only used one time and secondly, that both the sender and receiver have a copy of the same one-time pad ahead of time, and no one else (an eavesdropper) has it.  In practice, the first of these requirements is generally not difficult to achieve if proper procedures are followed by both sender and receiver.  However, the second requirement is more challenging, in that the one-time pad must be made available to both parties ahead of time.  This can pose logistical difficulties in many cases.  Quantum mechanics based cryptography offers a solution to this second challenge.  Photons can be polarized in several different ways.  In particular, they can be polarized horizontally or vertically (referred to as "rectilinear") or inclined at 45 or 135 degrees (referred to as "diagonal").  The important fact is that if a photon has been polarized in rectilinear fashion, if one makes a measurement in the other type, diagonal, then the result will be random (either being measured at 45 degrees or 135 degrees with equal probability).  Furthermore, if this measurement is performed by an eavesdropper, then this tampering will be detected by the legitimate recipient by utilizing a protocol described in [Bennett1984]_.  Basically, it comes down to the fact that any measurement will destroy the original state of the photon, unless you happen to measure in the exact same fashion as the photon was originally encoded.  This is the general concept underpinning Quantum Key Distribution (QKD).
